students and professors back in the early 1920s?
Well, I think we had lots of, there was lots more
personal contact. You knew them much more
intimately, and they knew the students
intimately. There was, now there's so many that
it's
come more difficult to know much about your
students. At least it was getting that way when I
wound up out there. And I think probably
back yonder we had much more respect for our
instructors and professors than they have now.
because, well, it's just the trend of the times. I
guess they don't have the respect for the parents
that they used to have. That is— So you think that
your idea then is that this is a generalization
from the home? Yeah, that's right. Do you think
there's other factors why they don't seem to have
more or as much respect today for their professors
as they used to?
Well, I think they're taught children these days
are more or less trained not to have too much
respect.
We never thought of calling anybody by their first
name. You never thought of calling a professor by
his first name? Yes. And if he had a title, we used
that. But now they'll introduce any old
gray-headed guy as Joe Bloke. There
seems to be a feeling of equality that didn't used
to exist.
You can go to some of the Latin country and Mexico's
and they have much more respect down there when
they're addressing people like that. I was
wondering about just out of class relations
between students and professors also back in the
early 1920s. Did you ever have any social events
with professors? Did people ever get together and
Oh, have intramural softball games or, I don't
know, drink a beer together or anything like that.
No. No, they didn't. Now, with small departments,
sometimes the department head would have the
seniors in for supper, for dinner sometime before
they graduated, but there'd be maybe not more than
a dozen sometimes three or four, depending on the
size of the senior class in that particular
department. But, and a lot of the, sometimes
they'd have, well, the students would have RV ball
and senior ball and all that sort of stuff, and a
good many of the professors would come to that if
they cared to. They were certainly invited. But as
far as Well, we didn't have any beer joints around
here then. Nobody was doing prohibition. That's
absolutely right. So there wasn't any, because
Cindy had no fraternizing of that type during that
time. Okay. Let's move on to talk about
personalities here for a moment. Of course, the
most predominant personality at the time is Dr.
Mark Francis, and he was your professor. Would you
describe him? What kind of character was he?
Well, he was very pleasant, and he was hard of
hearing, so you didn't talk to him. He did the
talking. Oh,
I see. And he just carried on from there, but he was
very pleasant, a little short fella, always in a
hurry, and a wonderful lecturer.
He wasn't a taskmaster. What do you mean? He didn't
give you any homework or many quizzes or anything
of that nature. He gave you the lectures and you're
supposed to remember it, and that was it. So he
wasn't hard in that respect, but He did a wonderful
job of preparing the cadavers for dissection.
Probably did too good a job, made it too easy,
because he'd inject the veins with one color of
blue plastiparas, and he'd inject the arteries
with red, and then you could just follow them out.
Whereas ordinarily, you just have a collapsed
blood vessel there and you have to figure out what
it is. But his were easy to follow out and dissect.
They did a good job.
Dr. Dunn, as far as his lectures were concerned, He
gave the best lecture of anyone in the veterinary
school, best organized. And he'd have it boiled
down to essentials. Good speaker? Good speaker,
yes. And he was great. What kind of man was he? What
do you mean, what kind of man? Well, I mean, could
you describe him? Well, he was very pleasant. He
was short,
not very tall, he was a little taller than Dr.
Francis and rather stout and
well he was very pleasant. How about Grady? How was
he on Grady? Could you compare him with Dr. Francis
on Grady? Oh yes, he was better at that than Dr.
Francis. Better in which way? In that he'd give you
a little more, work you a little more. Oh, I see.
You'd have to work a little harder to earn your
grade from him.
Dr. Leonard was a great man.
He was, if anything, he was too modest to get
national recognition. He was a better, I'd say,
surgeon in many respects than lots of the people
that wrote textbooks, but he wasn't interested in
that sort of thing, in recognition. He wanted to do
his job, and he was an excellent surgeon. So he
taught the course on surgery? Eventually. Now Dr.
Marsteller did first, and then Dr. Leonard did.
Could you talk about Dr. Marsteller? Dr.
Marsteller was, he was a peculiar sort of
individual.
He'd try to make you mad. To get you to do things,
respond.
How would he try to get you mad? Could you give me an
example? I can't give you an example, but He'd make
you do things that were useless.
Just menial things to knock you down. And
he was worse with his student labor and his
secretaries that way than he was with the
students, I guess, that he taught.
and he was always collecting things. At one time
they were feeding hogs the garbage from the mess
hall and he had the project and he'd have a man going
through all that garbage, getting all the forks
and spoons and things that had been thrown in the
garbage And he had a room and he had them all stuck
away there. And he had all kinds of junk around.
They told a story one time that he was going across
the campus and he saw a wheelbarrow out there. He
said, somebody's going to steal that. So he threw
it in his car and took it down there and put it in the
basement of the veterinary hospital. Probably
belonged to some maintenance man. Probably did.
But he didn't think somebody was going to steal
that, and so he took it. But he was always, he'd have
workmen that gathered lumber, and he'd have them
knocking the nails out and straightening the
nails.
He was, I don't know what it is, what kind of quirk
you'd call it,
he just couldn't stand it and see anything go to
waste. And
he was always doing something like that.
But he was generous at his If you went out with him,
if you were doing something with him, or you went on
a call with him, or went on a trip with him, he'd pay
everything. He was generous, but he couldn't
stand to see junk go to waste.
Maybe he was melting all that silver down and
cashing it in. Now it would be quite valuable
today. I don't know what became of all that stuff. I
guess they threw it away when they tore the old
veterinary hospital down.
The old veterinary hospital was a little frame
building.
It was
Well there's a little building there and
at the end of it by there used to be a museum and
originally that was the whole cholera laboratory
and the old veterinary hospital was just the other
side of that not too far from there.
I'm still interested in Dr. Francis do you Have any
more thoughts on him?
Well, he was always, he was very observant. He
didn't miss anything. As I say, he did the talking.
I remember I was going to one cold morning, must
have been about this time of year, frost was on the
ground. And I was living over in what they called
Beta Hall then. There were two frame buildings
that used to be, well at one time they were kind of
hotels, and then they made them into dormitories
for civilian students. I'd graduated, so I was
living in Beta Hall, and I was going to the, over to
anatomy, and the anatomy building is, was there by
close to the textile building, if you know where
the textile building is. Anyway, there was a water
tower there, a great big water tower. That's not
there anymore. And this boy had jumped off the
water tower during the night, and he was laying
there, had frost on him. Dr. Francis came out of the
anatomy building, came over and looked at him,
Says, huh, bad medicine, one drop to the dose.
And he had lots of expressions like that. If he
wanted to talk about somebody who was pompous,
he'd say, Colonel Big Belly came along on his horse
and never batted an eye on him. But he had lots of...
He had a good sense of humor. Oh, yeah, wonderful.
And he had lots of little expressions like that. I
remember one time we were in anatomy there. He was
skeleton of the horse. He had a skeleton of a horse
there. And he was talking about the joints,
different joints. And then he got to the hip joint.
He looked at the thing. He kind of closed his eyes
and pointed, and he said, Ha! That's one place
where the good Lord could have made an
improvement. That's the hip joint. So he was
sharp. Gee, he was sharp. I remember he was always
collecting mastodon bones and whatnot. And he had
this skeleton, not a skeleton, but a skull. I guess
it must have been of a mastodon. It was about that
behind. And he had all the parts of it. And he
brought a man in from New York or somewhere to put it
together for him. And the guy was standing there
and he had this little piece of bone and he was
looking at it and looking at the skull. Dr. Francis
came sashaying by there. He says, hop, I think
you'll find that goes here. Oh,
he was sharp.
Students must have liked him then. Oh yeah, they
loved him.
He was hard of hearing and lots of times his classes
were pretty noisy. Could he answer questions or
was he too hard of hearing to hear questions? He
didn't ask questions. Oh you didn't ask questions
in his class? He covered everything. Oh I see.
I know you were a student then and he was the
administrator but did Did it seem like, from the
student's angle, that the job of administration
was well done?
Yes, as far as we could tell, administration was
all right. He didn't like administration. I don't
think he liked going up there with the brass to the
academic council meetings and things. But yes, he
was a good administrator.
Okay, let's turn to
the vet program itself when you were there. What
did you think, did you think that there were some
particularly strong points of the program when
you went through and some that were weak?
I think the strongest parts were over in the
clinical subjects.
You know, clinical subjects and
in the practice.
In other words, training the students for field
work. Yes. That's probably, I think, one of the
strongest points. But it's hard to compare it
because you had these other basic courses that you
had to have before you got to that. And if you didn't
understand them, well, you didn't understand
your clinical work.
but I think they were all pretty strong when I was
there. You felt when you left in 1926 to go into
private practice in New Orleans that you had been
well trained? Yes.
Now you left in 1926 and then you returned in 1937,
11 years. You must have, when you came back, you
must have noticed a few changes. Could you
describe those?
Well, it was lots of, as far as the physical plant
was concerned, they had done lots of building
during the Depression. See, I wasn't there during
the Depression. Right, right, I know. Then they
had all those public works jobs, and they put up a
lot of good buildings and laboratories, so the
facilities were much improved
from what they were when I was in school.
And, well, everything had gotten It really got
bigger. It just seemed like there was more
students. There were more students and more
buildings and better buildings. Larger
curriculum maybe?
You mean college-wise, university-wise? No, in
the School of Vet Medicine. I think curriculum was
just about the same.
We didn't have enough teachers. I know that. Heck,
I taught all kinds of courses there. I taught a
little of everything. Not a little of everything,
but I assisted many of them and taught courses
for medicine and surgery that were not. See, I came
there in veterinary hygiene, what they called
veterinary hygiene. They had never had a
department for that, and I had to work up something
for
that department, but I also taught
non-infectious diseases for medicine and
surgery and obstetrics, and I assisted with
surgery, and
I just filled in where they needed. You
went into private practice in 1926. Instead of
going to work for the government, you went over to
New Orleans. That's right. Why did you accept that
job? looking for some way to get enough money to
eat, and they
were looking for a man.
I guess Dr. Marsteller must have asked me if I
wanted to go over there, and he loaned me $50 to get
there on. I didn't have any money. So, yes. So I went
to New Orleans and was with that firm there,
McLean, Carson, Dyke, and Chapman,
for about four months, I guess. Then I went to, Dr.
Burns had been in Beaumont with Dr. Kerr, and he
left to come to A&M, I guess, to teach. And I guess he
wrote me. He wanted to know if I wanted to come
there, and I did. And so I worked for Dr. Kerr and
became partner with him until I came to A&M in 1937.
Now when you were in private practice,
basically what were your duties? Were they small
animals yet? I did mostly the small animals, that
is when I was with Dr. Kerr, mostly small animals
and he did the large animals. I stayed in the
hospital, and he made the calls. Because you were
in an urban setting. Was this the time when more and
more people would bring in their house pets? Yeah.
During the 1920s? Yeah, well, it was picking up,
yes. That's right. It was just, this is the time
when house pets were starting to pick up. Yeah, and
then the crash came. Yeah, yeah. I'd like to talk
about what was it like to be a veterinarian in
private practice during the Great Depression? It
was tough going, and you did anything to get a
little extra money. One summer, I worked for the
government on a drought relief program. On what
relief? Drought relief. They'd had a big drought
down here in South Texas. And I was down there
buying cattle.
And then when I came back to Beaumont from that,
when that job played out, I came back, of course,
with Dr. Curry. We stayed partners. And I went to
work for the city of Beaumont on meat and milk
inspections. And then after work hours, I'd go
down to the hospital, and on Saturdays and
Sundays, I'd work there at the hospital taking
care of small animals, helping Dr. Kirk. Were
there a lot of people who just couldn't pay the
bill?
Well, there were a lot of people that didn't pay
their bill. It was hard. Yes, you had lots of debt
accounts. Did the number of small pets and small
animals, because of the Depression, because it
was so hard to get food, were the number of small
animals declining? Yes, it did decline. And so
your business in general then was probably
declined. Yeah, that's why I went to work for the
city. Yeah, right, right, right. There wasn't
enough there for both of us. Your income then
dropped. Sure.
Of course, the money that, I was still a partner
with Dr. Kerr, and what I got from the city, I went
into the general pot there at the hospital. Oh,
really? Oh, really? And so you weren't full-time
then? I was full-time with the city, but I'd come
after, at 5 o'clock, I'd go to the hospital and work
there, and on Saturdays and Sundays. Well, what
were the duties of, your title was city
veterinarian, wasn't it? Yeah. What were your
duties there? Well it was mostly, it was mostly
milk hygiene, inspecting dairies and
creameries, that sort of thing, and taking care of
any problems there that turned up at the abattoir,
the slaughterhouse, and Well lots of times other
things had come up. I can remember one time they had
a case of typhoid. These people were
isolated for typhoid and they couldn't pick up the
milk bottles there. So they had a room full of milk
bottles when the thing was over. So I had to go over
there and supervise the disinfecting of all that
stuff.
So different things that come up in the health
department. Yeah, I think that would broaden your
background. Oh yeah, it did.
And then in the evenings after you were done with
that, then you'd go back to the veterinary
hospital. Yeah, and if there was anything to do,
I'd take care of it. How'd you get this Job City vet?
Well, they were looking for a man.
The one they had, let's see, Ward, T. Ward, I guess,
left there. He was the man just ahead of me. And they
were looking for a man, so I went over and talked to
him about getting a job with him. A man by the name of
Cole was mayor then, had a lumber yard. I went to
talk to him, and then went to talk to the city
manager. They needed someone, so I got the job.
I tried to get it on a part-time basis, but they
wanted a full-time man.
So, that's the way we did it. In 1937, you were
appointed head to a newly established department
of veterinary and hygiene. Why'd they pick you?
Well, there again, I don't know. They were looking
for a man for someone. I can't tell you because Dr.
Francis had died, and Dr. Marsteller was dean, and
he'd gone to Europe, and they were looking for a man
And I guess Dr. Burns, Pat Burns, must have
contacted me. And I came up here and talked to him.
And
I can't remember any other details. I guess they
sent me a, must have sent me a letter. stating what
my salary would be and whatnot and whatnot.
Why'd you take it? Shoot, that was during the
Depression. Well, I know, but you had a job during
the Depression. Why'd you decide to change? Well,
we were splitting up down there. There was two of us
living off of that. And there'd just be... me and my
wife living off of this and up here, so it looked
like a better opportunity. Were you rather
nostalgic about the thought of coming back to
Texas A&M? Well, yes. I loved the place, and I had
kept up with it pretty well, had lots of friends
here, So I was glad to come back.
And here I'm still here. Still in Bryan now. I never
go on the campus much anymore. Too many people, too
many automobiles.
And I don't really have any business up there,
except visit.
I know very few people now.
So many new people have come in and there's been
such a turnover that I've just lost my contacts out
there to a large extent.